isolated incident, and the Muggle Liaison Office was dealing with all
memory modifications as they spoke.
“Oh, and I almost forgot,” Fudge had added. “We’re
importing three foreign dragons and a sphinx for the
Triwizard Tournament, quite routine, but the
Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical
Creatures tells me that it’s down in the rule book that
we have to notify you if we’re bringing highly
dangerous creatures into the country.”
“I — what — dragons?” spluttered the Prime Minister.
“Yes, three,” said Fudge. “And a sphinx. Well, good
day to you.”
The Prime Minister had hoped beyond hope that
dragons and sphinxes would be the worst of it, but
no. Less than two years later, Fudge had erupted out
of the fire yet again, this time with the news that
there had been a mass breakout from Azkaban.
“A mass breakout?” repeated the Prime Minister
hoarsely.
“No need to worry, no need to worry!” shouted Fudge,
already with one foot in the flames. “We’ll have them
rounded up in no time — just thought you ought to
know!”
And before the Prime Minister could shout, “Now, wait
just one moment!” Fudge had vanished in a shower of
green sparks.
Whatever the press and the opposition might say, the
Prime Minister was not a foolish man. It had not
escaped his notice that, despite Fudge’s assurances
at their first meeting, they were now seeing rather a
lot of each other, nor that Fudge was becoming more
flustered with each visit. Little though he liked to think about the Minister
of Magic (or, as he always
called Fudge in his head, the Other Minister), the
Prime Minister could not help but fear that the next
time Fudge appeared it would be with graver news
still. The sight, therefore, of Fudge stepping out of the
fire once more, looking disheveled and fretful and
sternly surprised that the Prime Minister did not
know exactly why he was there, was about the worst
thing that had happened in the course of this
extremely gloomy week.
“How should I know what’s going on in the — er —
Wizarding community?” snapped the Prime Minister
now. “I have a country to run and quite enough
concerns at the moment without —”
“We have the same concerns,” Fudge interrupted.
“The Brockdale Bridge didn’t wear out. That wasn’t
really a hurricane. Those murders were not the work
of Muggles. And Herbert Chorley’s family would be
safer without him. We are currently making
arrangements to have him transferred to St. Mungo’s
Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. The move
should be effected tonight.”
“What do you … I’m afraid I … What?” blustered the
Prime Minister.Fudge took a great, deep breath and said, “Prime
Minister, I am very sorry to have to tell you that he’s
back. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back.”
“Back? When you say ‘back’ … he’s alive? I mean —”
The Prime Minister groped in his memory for the
details of that horrible conversation of three years
previously, when Fudge had told him about the
wizard who was feared above all others, the wizard
who had committed a thousand terrible crimes before his mysterious
disappearance fifteen years earlier.
“Yes, alive,” said Fudge. “That is — I don’t know — is
a man alive if he can’t be killed? I don’t really
understand it, and Dumbledore won’t explain
properly — but anyway, he’s certainly got a body and
is walking and talking and killing, so I suppose, for
the purposes of our discussion, yes, he’s alive.”
The Prime Minister did not know what to say to this,
but a persistent habit of wishing to appear well informed on any subject that came up made him cast
around for any details he could remember of their
previous conversations.
“Is Serious Black with — er — He-Who-Must-Not-Be Named?”
“Black? Black?” said Fudge distractedly, turning his
bowler rapidly in his fingers. “Sirius Black, you
mean? Merlin’s beard, no. Black’s dead. Turns out we
were — er — mistaken about Black. He was innocent
after all. And he wasn’t in league with He-Who-Must Not-Be-Named either. I mean,” he added defensively,
spinning the bowler hat still faster, “all the evidence
pointed — we had more than fifty eyewitnesses — but
anyway, as I say, he’s dead. Murdered, as a matter of
fact. On Ministry of Magic premises. There’s going to
be an inquiry, actually. …”
To his great surprise, the Prime Minister felt a fleeting
stab of pity for Fudge at this point. It was, however,
eclipsed almost immediately by a glow of smugness at
the thought that, deficient though he himself might
be in the area of materializing out of fireplaces, there
had never been a murder in any of the government
departments under his charge. … Not yet, anyway …
While the Prime Minister surreptitiously touched the wood of his desk,
Fudge continued, “But Black’s by-the-by now. The point is, we’re at war,
Prime Minister,
and steps must be taken.”
“At war?” repeated the Prime Minister nervously.
“Surely that’s a little bit of an overstatement?”
“He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has now been joined by
those of his followers who broke out of Azkaban in
January,” said Fudge, speaking more and more
rapidly and twirling his bowler so fast that it was a
lime-green blur. “Since they have moved into the
open, they have been wreaking havoc. The Brockdale
Bridge — he did it, Prime Minister, he threatened a
mass Muggle killing unless I stood aside for him and
—”
“Good grief, so it’s your fault those people were killed
and I’m having to answer questions about rusted
rigging and corroded expansion joints and I don’t
know what else!” said the Prime Minister furiously.
“My fault!” said Fudge, coloring up. “Are you saying
you would have caved in to blackmail like that?”
“Maybe not,” said the Prime Minister, standing up
and striding about the room, “but I would have put all
my efforts into catching the blackmailer before he
committed any such atrocity!”
“Do you really think I wasn’t already making every
effort?” demanded Fudge heatedly. “Every Auror in
the Ministry was — and is — trying to find him and
round up his followers, but we happen to be talking
about one of the most powerful wizards of all time, a
wizard who has eluded capture for almost three
decades!”
“So I suppose you’re going to tell me he caused the hurricane in the West
Country too?” said the Prime Minister, his temper rising with every pace he took. It
was infuriating to discover the reason for all these
terrible disasters and not to be able to tell the public,
almost worse than it being the government’s fault
after all.
“That was no hurricane,” said Fudge miserably.
“Excuse me!” barked the Prime Minister, now
positively stamping up and down. “Trees uprooted,
roofs ripped off, lampposts bent, horrible injuries —”
“It was the Death Eaters,” said Fudge. “He-Who-Must Not-Be-Named’s followers. And … and we suspect
giant involvement.”
The Prime Minister stopped in his tracks as though
he had hit an invisible wall. “What involvement?”
Fudge grimaced. “He used giants last time, when he
wanted to go for the grand effect,” he said. “The Office
of Misinformation has been working around the clock,
we’ve had teams of Obliviators out trying to modify
the memories of all the Muggles who saw what really
happened, we’ve got most of the Department for the
Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures running
around Somerset, but we can’t find the giant — it’s
been a disaster.”
“You don’t say!” said the Prime Minister furiously.
“I won’t deny that morale is pretty low at the
Ministry,” said Fudge. “What with all that, and then
losing Amelia Bones.”
“Losing who?”
“Amelia Bones. Head of the Department of Magical
Law Enforcement. We think He-Who-Must-Not-Be Named may have murdered her in person, because
she was a very gifted witch and — and all the
evidence was that she put up a real fight.”
Fudge cleared his throat and, with an effort, it
seemed, stopped spinning his bowler hat.
“But that murder was in the newspapers,” said the
Prime Minister, momentarily diverted from his anger.
“Our newspapers. Amelia Bones … it just said she
was a middle-aged woman who lived alone. It was a —
a nasty killing, wasn’t it? It’s had rather a lot of
publicity. The police are baffled, you see.”
Fudge sighed. “Well, of course they are,” he said.
“Killed in a room that was locked from the inside,
wasn’t she? We, on the other hand, know exactly who
did it, not that that gets us any further toward
catching him. And then there was Emmeline Vance,
maybe you didn’t hear about that one —”
“Oh yes I did!” said the Prime Minister. “It happened
just around the corner from here, as a matter of fact.
The papers had a field day with it, ‘breakdown of law
and order in the Prime Minister’s backyard —’ ”
“And as if all that wasn’t enough,” said Fudge, barely
listening to the Prime Minister, “we’ve got dementors
swarming all over the place, attacking people left,
right, and center. …”
Once upon a happier time this sentence would have
been unintelligible to the Prime Minister, but he was
wiser now.
“I thought dementors guard the prisoners in
Azkaban,” he said cautiously.
“They did,” said Fudge wearily. “But not anymore.
They’ve deserted the prison and joined He-Who-Must Not-Be-Named. I won’t pretend that wasn’t a blow.”
“But,” said the Prime Minister, with a sense of
dawning horror, “didn’t you tell me they’re the
creatures that drain hope and happiness out of
people?”
“That’s right. And they’re breeding. That’s what’s
causing all this mist.”
The Prime Minister sank, weak-kneed, into the
nearest chair. The idea of invisible creatures swooping
through the towns and countryside, spreading
despair and hopelessness in his voters, made him feel
quite faint.“Now see here, Fudge — you’ve got to do something!
It’s your responsibility as Minister of Magic!”
“My dear Prime Minister, you can’t honestly think I’m
still Minister of Magic after all this? I was sacked
three days ago! The whole Wizarding community has
been screaming for my resignation for a fortnight. I’ve
never known them so united in my whole term of
office!” said Fudge, with a brave attempt at a smile.
The Prime Minister was momentarily lost for words.
Despite his indignation at the position into which he
had been placed, he still rather felt for the shrunken looking man sitting opposite him.
“I’m very sorry,” he said finally. “If there’s anything I
can do?”“It’s very kind of you, Prime Minister, but there is
nothing. I was sent here tonight to bring you up to
date on recent events and to introduce you to my
successor. I rather thought he’d be here by now, but of course, he’s very
busy at the moment, with so
much going on.”
Fudge looked around at the portrait of the ugly little
man wearing the long curly silver wig, who was
digging in his ear with the point of a quill. Catching
Fudge’s eye, the portrait said, “He’ll be here in a
moment, he’s just finishing a letter to Dumbledore.”
“I wish him luck,” said Fudge, sounding bitter for the
first time. “I’ve been writing to Dumbledore twice a
day for the past fortnight, but he won’t budge. If he’d
just been prepared to persuade the boy, I might still
be … Well, maybe Scrimgeour will have more
success.”
Fudge subsided into what was clearly an aggrieved
silence, but it was broken almost immediately by the
portrait, which suddenly spoke in its crisp, official
voice.
“To the Prime Minister of Muggles. Requesting a
meeting. Urgent. Kindly respond immediately. Rufus
Scrimgeour, Minister of Magic.”
“Yes, yes, fine,” said the Prime Minister distractedly,
and he barely flinched as the flames in the grate
turned emerald green again, rose up, and revealed a
second spinning wizard in their heart, disgorging him
moments later onto the antique rug.
Fudge got to his feet and, after a moment’s hesitation,
the Prime Minister did the same, watching the new
arrival straighten up, dust down his long black robes,
and look around.
The Prime Minister’s first, foolish thought was that
Rufus Scrimgeour looked rather like an old lion.
There were streaks of gray in his mane of tawny hair and his bushy
eyebrows; he had keen yellowish eyes
behind a pair of wire-rimmed spectacles and a certain
rangy, loping grace even though he walked with a
slight limp. There was an immediate impression of
shrewdness and toughness; the Prime Minister
thought he understood why the Wizarding community
preferred Scrimgeour to Fudge as a leader in these
dangerous times.
“How do you do?” said the Prime Minister politely,
holding out his hand.
Scrimgeour grasped it briefly, his eyes scanning the
room, then pulled out a wand from under his robes.
“Fudge told you everything?” he asked, striding over
to the door and tapping the keyhole with his wand.
The Prime Minister heard the lock click.
“Er — yes,” said the Prime Minister. “And if you don’t
mind, I’d rather that door remained unlocked.”
“I’d rather not be interrupted,” said Scrimgeour
shortly, “or watched,” he added, pointing his wand at
the windows, so that the curtains swept across them.
“Right, well, I’m a busy man, so let’s get down to
business. First of all, we need to discuss your
security.”The Prime Minister drew himself up to his fullest
height and replied, “I am perfectly happy with the
security I’ve already got, thank you very —”
“Well, we’re not,” Scrimgeour cut in. “It’ll be a poor
lookout for the Muggles if their Prime Minister gets
put under the Imperius Curse. The new secretary in
your outer office —”
“I’m not getting rid of Kingsley Shacklebolt, if that’s what you’re
suggesting!” said the Prime Minister
hotly. “He’s highly efficient, gets through twice the
work the rest of them —”
“That’s because he’s a wizard,” said Scrimgeour,
without a flicker of a smile. “A highly trained Auror,
who has been assigned to you for your protection.”
“Now, wait a moment!” declared the Prime Minister.
“You can’t just put your people into my office, I decide
who works for me —”
“I thought you were happy with Shacklebolt?” said
Scrimgeour coldly.
“I am — that’s to say, I was —”
“Then there’s no problem, is there?” said Scrimgeour.
“I … well, as long as Shacklebolt’s work continues to
be … er … excellent,” said the Prime Minister lamely,
but Scrimgeour barely seemed to hear him.
“Now, about Herbert Chorley, your Junior Minister,”
he continued. “The one who has been entertaining the
public by impersonating a duck.”
“What about him?” asked the Prime Minister.
“He has clearly reacted to a poorly performed
Imperius Curse,” said Scrimgeour. “It’s addled his
brains, but he could still be dangerous.”
“He’s only quacking!” said the Prime Minister weakly.
“Surely a bit of a rest … Maybe go easy on the drink
…”
“A team of Healers from St. Mungo’s Hospital for
Magical Maladies and Injuries are examining him as
we speak. So far he has attempted to strangle three of
them,” said Scrimgeour. “I think it best that we
remove him from Muggle society for a while.”
“I … well … He’ll be all right, won’t he?” said the
Prime Minister anxiously. Scrimgeour merely shrugged, already moving back
toward the fireplace. “Well, that’s really all I had to say. I will keep you
posted of developments, Prime Minister — or, at least,
I shall probably be too busy to come personally, in
which case I shall send Fudge here. He has consented
to stay on in an advisory capacity.”
Fudge attempted to smile, but was unsuccessful; he
merely looked as though he had a toothache.
Scrimgeour was already rummaging in his pocket for
the mysterious powder that turned the fire green. The
Prime Minister gazed hopelessly at the pair of them
for a moment, then the words he had fought to
suppress all evening burst from him at last.
“But for heaven’s sake — you’re wizards! You can do
magic! Surely you can sort out — well — anything!”
Scrimgeour turned slowly on the spot and exchanged
an incredulous look with Fudge, who really did
manage a smile this time as he said kindly, “The
trouble is, the other side can do magic too, Prime
Minister.”And with that, the two wizards stepped one after the
other into the bright green fire and vanished.
